how good does it feel to be back where we belong in the house of allah subhanahu ta'ala after
this long period feels like a lifetime and i have missed you dear brothers
i have missed you enormously and the difficulties that people experience in being away from the likes of these
gatherings affects all of us equally and let no facade or smiley face
or an appearance that someone shows you convince you otherwise it's tough being away from the house of allah but at the same token we
celebrate we thank allah subhanallah the fact that we feel this way we thank him that we were upset
because of the distance we had between us and the masjid and in some of the narrations although there is a doubt in their chain of transmission that if you see a person
visiting the houses of allah iman then testify to his iman to his faith the fact that that love and the
attachment to the masjid is there after all allah said in
allah those who frequent the houses of allah they are those who believe in allah the
last day so that is allah describing them you see them in the masjid then with their sins and with their
yawnings and with their crimes public and private they are insha allah people of iman
although all of us we have iman that is a work in progress i mentioned if you remember in the
build-up to this lecture series during the trailer i said that
when lockdown was finally eased to some extent and we were allowed back to the masjid and we were making our way to the mosque
to do our first salah after a long period i for one was quite surprised to see how
different people look from an aesthetic perspective you look to your right and you see an individual and uncle who put on quite a
few kg since lock down when you look to your left you see someone who's now praying on a chair he used to be able to stand upright
and you look a little bit further down the measure you see him swallowing pills medicines problems that he never had elements he
didn't have pre-lockdown and others whom when you try to speak with them they struggle to make eye contact
the social interpersonal skills are no more so that took me by surprise just
the visual assessment what shocked me even more was when we started speaking to some of our
brothers in the masjid and the complaints the pains and the new addictions that had been
picked up and the battle with iman it became clear to me that the
test the internal test the internal damage that was done because of this lockdown was far more severe than thee
than the physical one so it became quite clear to me that if allah subhanahu ta'ala was going to give us life for us to restart these lectures
i promised myself that the very first topic will be a focus on these rusty hearts of ours
to bring them back to a status that will be pleasing to allah and will please us in this life before the next
why the topic of hearts is this a topic that we've chosen to run away from the problems of reality
is this a form of escapism don't we have anything better to talk about no i'm going to share with you
and this session and next week's session they will be introductory sessions to our series that we've called change of hearts
we'll share with you a few headings to show you that we've chosen this topic for a very huge reason and the topic at hand is grave
because there isn't anything on planet earth that requires more attention and polishing
and purely purifying and curing than the condition of the human heart yet the paradox is that there isn't
anything that is more neglected and abused and exposed to all sorts of harm
than that same human heart why have we chosen the topic of hearts
allow me to share with you perhaps seven or so headings the first prophet hud
was herod with open heart surgery prophethood began
with a procedure upon the heart of the prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi
in the famous hadith which imam al-bukhari and muslim narrate on the authority of anas he said that when the prophet muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam was still a child playing with some of his friends angel jibril made his way to him
and in front of those children he wrestled him to the ground and he opened up his chest
a physical opening that is and then he extracted his heart and then he opened his heart
and pulled out from his heart a black clot of some sort
and jibril said to that child alayhi
this was shaytan's portion of you and then he took the heart and he washed
it within a gold basin using zamzam water then the heart was sealed it was placed back into the chest and then the chest
was sealed the servant of the prophet salallahu
i as his companion when he became a man i used to see the effects of the stitches on his chest
so it was a literal surgery that was done to him so notice how before he became a prophet there was
a need to cleanse what there was a need to cleanse his heart so prophethood began with the
purification of the heart from a physical perspective this is why this topic is so serious
allah said we're going to send down upon you or prophet muhammed a weighty speech a heavy speech
so heavy that mountains couldn't bear it had the quran been sent down upon a mountain what would have happened
you would see that mountain falling apart from the fear and the hebrew the o of allah mountains cannot receive the
quran so what was the helipad the helipad was the human heart and therefore it had to be prepared that's number one why else have we
chosen the topic of heart because the receptor of islamic admonition is the heart
did you understand this the receiver what receives the islamic reminder
whether quran or hadith or a friday sermon or a lecture like this what is receiving it primarily
is your heart not your ears not any other sensory faculty that you have it's your heart that's where it's
going and this is precisely why allah said in
there is a reminder in this for who
[Music]
for he who possesses a heart there is a reminder in this but for whom for he who possesses a heart
not an ear for he who possesses a heart
or he gives ear whilst he is attentive so it's going to the heart how is it
that two people may hear the exact same reminder same content same speaker same pace same
tone of voice yet they behave in polar opposite ways we may get this disparity in this particular hall
two people who hear the same message but look at the difference between them person a
hears it and his eyes begin to water up with tears memories of the past start playing in
his mind and a decision to change his life once and for all comes into play from this very evening
then you have individual be maybe sat just next to him no social distancing needed he hears the same content
but in one ear out the other unaffected what's the differences between them nothing to do with their physical
properties no difference in their health in their fitness that's not the idea the idea is this one had a healthy heart and this one had an
unhealthy heart this islamic heart was ready to receive the admonition and therefore it produced change
and this heart was not a healthy heart it's obsessed with all sorts of sins and yarnings and cravings and there's no room for this
type of material anyway and so it is pushed out the difference is in the status of the heart so the heart is the receiver of the islamic
content this is just like rain water the same rain that falls upon land but
each plot of land behaves completely differently depending upon the properties of that soil you have a land
that is fertile and so it absorbs the rain water and it's able to hold it in it retains it
and then it's able to produce all sorts of colorful plants and beneficial herbage
then you have a second plot of land that receives the same rain but this land is different
it's a rocky terrain it's unable to absorb the water so it holds the water it carries it
it benefits others who come to drink from it but that land itself cannot produce anything
and then you have a third type of land and this is the worst of them all it's a salty or a
sandy plot of land where the rain goes straight through it that land is unable to retain the water
thus producing anything beneficial and therefore it is also unable to benefit itself
this is exactly the analogy of the human heart and how it behaves to revelation like what you are hearing now islamic
content why people behave differently because of how fertile hearts are
you have a heart that hears it it is time to change and the vibes of that reminder stay with
you for a week after it as well maybe a lifetime even so you retain that knowledge and you grow because of it and you're
willing to share it with others as well that's the fertile land then you have a second type of heart
it carries the information but because it is ill with a desire that you and i may know about
it cannot absorb it but it can share it with others come to the lecture i've memorized this arya
listen to this hadith but in of himself he has not grown and then you have the worst type of
hearts where the reminder goes straight through it unable to grow because of it
and let alone benefit anybody else which heart is yours
search for your heart during one of three circumstances
when you hear the quran recited where is your heart and during gatherings of remembrance
like this where is your heart number three when you are alone
when no one is looking young man search for your heart he concludes and he
if you fail to find your heart during these three times then make dua ask allah to give you a heart because
you are a heartless human being he said so we said why have we chosen this topic
we said prophethood was foreshadowed with a procedure on the heart number two the receptor of the islamic information and
admonition is the human heart number three are you taking notes number three
the motivator towards the doing of good deeds is the heart
the practitioners of islam those who practice the religion they do so because of their hearts that encourage
them this is simple it's as simple as that didn't the messenger sallallahu alaihi
wasallam say in the famous hadith which bukhari and muslim narrating the authority of bashir he said
yes there is a limb in the body he said
there is a limb if it is sound the rest of the body will be sound if it is corrupt the rest of the body
will be corrupt he said that limb is the heart so the heart is the king the heart is what issues the commands
that gives out the instructions these hands these limbs these private parts they are simply obeying to the instructor instruction of a corrupt king
or a just king but it's the heart so those who practice islam you see them
how is it that individual a is able to wake up from salatul day and day out seamlessly sometimes he or she they don't even need
their alarm clocks anymore they say it's it's a built-in alarm now we just wake up without it and then you have individual bee who cannot remember the last time he
listened to his alarm and didn't pray salah 9 or 10 am in the morning what's the difference between them
they're both fit they're both healthy it's the condition of what condition of the heart
how is it that there may be two individuals two sisters say for example one of them is adamant upon the islamic
hijab the correct islamic hijab it doesn't care what time of day it is hijab and another one of our sisters who has a
weakness as we all do and the hijab slips on and off according to the moon or the circumstance or the occasion
how come the condition of hearts that's all it is nothing more nothing less individual a who is able to say no this
is a haram business deal i can't do that even if i've got to do a nine till five and live of minimum wage i will not put haram in my belly no thanks
how does he how does he do that and then you get individual b who's folding prey to every pyramid ponzi scheme under the sun he doesn't care
riba alcohol cheating depriving people of their in he doesn't care how come
one difference not two one and that is what the condition of the heart
so i love the words of sumatra son of aj is a hadith transmitter
he said in allah
strong in his heart not necessarily strong in his body and then he elaborates
he said don't you see how there may be an old senile man who's weak in his body
yet he's able to fast the long summer days and he's able to pray the long
summer nights in qiyam whilst the young man next door is unable to do
all of that how come it's here it's the condition of the heart do you
see why we have chosen this topic brothers and sisters are we building a case for it in your hearts these are three reasons i have shared with you so far let me share with you a
fourth the place where fitna
presented to is the human heart you think it's your eye that saw what was haram or did you think it was your
ear that heard that was haram or did you think it was your hand or any other part of your anatomy that touched that which was haram
dear sister these are just gateways the entry the destination is the heart
fitna goes straight to the heart and this is mentioned explicitly in the hadith which muslim narrates on the
authority of hadith that the messenger said
tests tribulations temptations whatever they may be they are presented to the hearts fitna by fitnah
the same way that a reed mat is woven stick by stick one at a time
fitna by fitnah temptation by temptation one at a time it's coming to the heart he explains he says
listen to this beautiful hadith he said
therefore any heart that absorbs the fitna it takes it in what happens a black dot is placed upon
that heart you feel that darkness you feel that gloom and misery when you don't know your gaze for example or cover your ears for example you feel
that black dot almost physically he said
but any heart that repels this fitness with patience it turns away from it despite the pain he said a white dot
will be placed upon that heart this continues to happen hatha
till one of two hearts will develop with a person there's no third till one of two hearts he said
one of the two hearts will eventually become so white it will look like a white stone pure and clean
therefore no fitna will ever harm it so long as the heavens and the earth endure allah may allah give us that type of heart
what is the second more than
and as for the other type of heart that's just allowing anything in it will end up looking like a black and
gray dust-colored vessel that is upside down upside down and you can try to pour this
cup with water all you like when it's upside down it will never fill he said that's what the heart will look like towards yet black dust colored upside down
not recognizing good not forbidding evil but being obsessed with sins so you try to offer that type of heart
admonition and reminders it just deflects it you give it aya quran sunnah you know the person is not dialed in he's not
there they're not checking in with you it's deflecting it so where is fitness presented dear
brothers and sisters where does it go it goes to the heart why is it that when you see something in the street that you know maybe perhaps
you looked at it a little bit too long and then it disappears khalas you go and tk max and you do your shopping
you go home you come to sleep you close your eyes the image is still there what happened it went where
it went to the heart that's where fitna goes how is it that you may hear something you know you should have closed the browser
you should have swiped left right you know you shouldn't have given it your eardrums but you do you switch it off you say astaghfirullah
and you need to do that you go home you play with the kids you go to sleep switch off the lights pin drops silence you hear the track what
happened you went to the heart you go on the internet you read something you know you shouldn't have read it's a it's a doubt it makes you
shake in your religion you switch it off you go home you come to sleep you can still read it you can still hear it your iman is now lingering why because it went to the heart
and the same can be said about here goodness you come to a lecture like this or any other one and you feel uplifted you feel strong you feel now buzzing with iman you feel
light emanating from you even when you are leaving them as jid why because that hair went into your heart so fitna is presented to the heart
remember that your eyes your ears they are gutters gutters imagine this gutters and they are pouring their contents into
your heart and we're just allowing these gutters to pour everything at any time of the day
into that poor heart it can't take it it can do it then you ask i'm actions i'm anxious
i'm miserable i'm upset i'm unstable i'm unhappy what have you filled those gutters with
what have you filled this gutters with because whatever you've chosen to fill them with they are pouring where into the heart
so this is another reason why we've chosen this topic because the home of fitna
is the heart another reason why we've chosen this topic this is number five is because of the home of happiness is
the heart values like happiness and the contentment
and peace satisfaction reliance upon allah
patience where do these values reside not in the hands and certainly not in your bank account
these values reside only in the heart so you spoil your limbs with all of the embellishments of your of life that you want
if you leave your heart unattended watch how happiness will vanish and the opposite is true
give your heart the attention it deserves you are doing this by attending the likes of this lecture and watch how allah will bring happiness
back into your life because it's your heart that you are treating even though your limbs may be in pain your heart is at peace
you will be able to repeat the words of our predecessors who said what inna fe dunya there is a paradise in
this world whoever does not live in this paradise today will not enter the
paradise of the hereafter what paradise are they referring to their paradise of having a content heart
that knows allah and is at peace with him that is a paradise that you experience in the life
of this world before the hereafter malik of
without experiencing the sweetest thing it has to offer they said what is the sweetest thing that life has to offer he said
knowing allah and loving him that sits in the heart so when the heart is attended to
forget about what your limbs may be experiencing even if it is imprisonment a physical one or a metaphorical one you are at peace
and you will repeat the words of imambinu who said these are wonderful words who should be written with ink of gold
or something more precious than the ink of gold like the tears of the righteous believer that he sheds for the sake of his lord he said
fulfill that in the human heart there is a sense of scattering
that can only be gathered by returning back to allah
and in the human heart there is a sense of loneliness that can only be erased by finding companionship with allah
and in the human heart there is a sense of fear and anxiety that can only be removed by feeling back to allah
and in the heart there is a sense of regret that can only be extinguished by being content with allah subhanahu wa
so where is the home of happiness the home of happiness is the heart we ask allah to allow us to taste it and to treat our
ill hearts why else have we chosen this topic this is number six from the seven
because brothers and sisters the greatest of all deeds they are the deeds of the heart
see how much do we speak about the physical manifestations of islam salah that you do and zakat that you give and fasting
that you do and we talk about that a lot and rightly so this is part of the religion
how much attention do you feel is given to those inward forms of islam
acts of reliance and submission and penitence and humility and ex feeling the awe of allah
and loving him and fearing him and hoping in him and yearning for him desiring that proximity with the divine
those are according to the consensus of the scholars of islam greater than the physical acts of islam
as a category they are more noble the internal acts of worship and it's quite simple isn't it it's a
no-brainer do all of the physical actions of islam you want pray all day right
but in the absence of certain internal acts of worship in the heart that are absent all of it will be in vain
like tawheed unifying allah believing in him if that's not there what does praying mean nothing
as a muslim you may fast all day day upon day and pray night upon night
but then you have an issue of showing off there's no ikhlas all of those good deeds come crashing down subhanallah that's the importance of
having this in check so they are what they are more important they are greater as a category than the physical actions of islam
are we giving it attention it deserves furthermore this is an interesting point here
the actions of islam are required sometimes not all of the time you're sometimes required to pray five times a day
minimally between them you don't need to pray fasting you do that once a year if you
don't fast again you're not really sinful so the physical actions of islam are
required sometimes but not other times as for the inward actions of the heart
some of them are required every second of the day are you allowed for a second to pass
from your life without being a mu'min are you are you allowed for a second of the day to pass by where you are in
doubt of allah are you allowed to be insincere for a second of that you're not allowed
now we do these things may allah forgive us we fall pray to them but we're wrong for doing it we ask allah to forgive us but you are required to be in that state
24 hours a day seven days a week and that's why they say that the inward
actions as imam those inward actions of the religion is
what allah primarily intends from us and primarily what he wants from us it is the foundation of all deeds
and as for the actions of the limbs they complete them they add to them they enrich them
and then he says that the inward actions they are like the soul of a body whereas the physical actions they are
like the body itself and what is the worth of a body without a what is the worth of a body without a
without a soul yeah it's dead you can love your wife as much as you want
you can scream over her demise may allah give your wife long life but two days three days into her death you'll be calling the coroner saying for
heaven's sake can you please rush to the house she's beginning to stink she needs to go underground he needs to go on the ground
why because the soul is not there so the real value was what the hair the real value was in the soul
and now that it's gone you want that person out of your life so these inward actions
these are the soul of your relationship with allah one more heading i will share with you before we move on why have we chosen
this topic of the hearts and that is because the center of attention on the day of judgment will be the human
heart the showdown will all depend on the state of york and who knew allah better than the
prophet ibrahim who knew allah better than him who recognized his lord better than him
coming only second place to our prophet muhammad so when he says something give it wait
he said listen to this dua as allah documents of the poets ibrahim he says
my lord give me authority and allow me to follow in the footsteps of the righteous
and give me a reputation of honor in the latter generations of people
and allow me to be an inheritor of the guardians of the light
and oh allah forgive my father because he has gone astray and don't disgrace me on the day of
resurrection on the day when no one will be benefited
by money or children
[Music]
that is the most precious thing you can offer your lord on the day of judgment and it will be the center of all attention show me your
heart and that is why how beautiful were the words
that the distances of this world they are covered by your feet that's how you move distances of this road they are covered by your feet but the distances in the hereafter
they are covered by hearts these are the elevators where's your heart why was abu bakr allah ahead of the race
how come what made him special to any other companion wasn't the tallest wasn't the most handsome
he wasn't the richest he also wasn't the poorest he didn't die as a martyr
like sumiya and sad and umar he wasn't persecuted like yasir
and bilal he didn't have as much money as say az-zubair
or abdul-rahman yet he is ahead of them all including the scholars and martyrs of this nation how come
simple recipe are you ready for it it wasn't a lot of prayer and fasting
that caused him to win the race he said well i can be saying but it was something that fell into his heart
that's the secret his heart and how he felt about the religion and allah was different
thus he is awful as allah said he shall be pleased so this is the seventh reason why we've chosen this topic which is
the center of attention on the day of judgment and your elevators in that race in the hereafter is about the condition of the heart we
ask allah to purify the heart this is why dear brothers and sisters now focus with me as we move on to the the second area of this discussion
or this lecture the study of the hearts that we're going to be starting the change of heart series
is one of them not from the wasa it's one of the objectives not a means
focus here with me for a moment there are certain sciences of islam that you study in order to help you to reach something
else but that science in of itself it is not an objective it is a what
means to a objective for example you study islamic legal theory
you study it not as an ends as a means to get you to jurisprudence islamic law
you study musl hadith hadith classification sciences not as an ends as an objective but just to help
you to get to hadith the science of hadith or the study of hadith those of you who are come back from egypt
who are studying arabic you now know that you study nahu syntax or grammar not as an ends
but in order to get you to do the correct arab correct case endings when writing or
speaking arabic it's a means to an end as for the study of the hearts that we will be embarking on insha'allah
it is an objective in of itself it's not a means it is an ends in of itself
now we ask the question what does the word mean we're using the word interchangeably heart the arabic is
appears a lot in the quran what does it mean from a linguistic arabic perspective there are two main meanings
the first meaning is the essence of something
and its most noble part when you say that this is the of something the heart of a matter it
means it's the essence of it and the most noble part of it just from a linguistic perspective
the second meaning is to turn something over from side to side
these are the two linguistic meanings of this word how do they apply to the human heart and why was it given this name very easy in line with the first meaning which we
said that it is the essence of something at the most noble part of it because that is what your heart is it is your essence
and it is the most noble part of you that carries values like comprehension and consciousness and awareness and
thought and love and submission and regret and penitence it's your essence therefore it's your
center and it's your most noble path that's the heart and in line of this with the second meaning that we said is what
what was the second meaning turning something over from side to side why is the human heart given this name
it goes without saying right ma'am because the heart is always changing
from side to side all is oscillating between iman and kufor to iman sincerity to inceros is
insincerity and vice versa from contentment to jealousy and and vice versa from greed to satisfaction and vice versa from a resolve to do
something to lethargy and laziness and a vice versa it's always changing in its intentions in its motives in its feelings from its
anger and rage and can't it's always changing and that is why ibn umar generates on the authority of abu musa that the messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam
said
[Music]
the example of the human heart is like the example of a feather that is blown about on a windy day
that's your heart and mind a feather that is blown about on a windy day it's risky stuff
and of course there's no contradiction between these two meanings the essence of something and it's noble part and something that is turning from side
to side there's no contradiction you can easily reconcile between them by saying the noble matters the essence of matters the most valuable
matters are things that you protect from turning from side to side and leaving you so one of the names of the heart is al
we've understood this now another name that the quran refers to it as as the fuad have you heard of this name before
fuad the human heart is called literally meaning something that is burning
or something that is inflamed look how graphic that is something that is inflamed
it's called a fu'ad because it is inflamed with desires and thoughts and different intentions honey
it's true isn't it if you uh your neighbor is snoring put in some ear plugs that's the end of your hair you can't
hear anything hello if your neighbor wants to keep the lights on when you're sleeping kalash you put on something on your face that's
the end of your seeing does the heart get any rest the heart is constantly thinking
yearning analyzing processing when you are awake when you are asleep during the day during the night it never stops terrorizing you it's quite
agonizing actually that's the nature of the heart so it's called fuad because it's a constant state of inflammation
and that's why allah said in the quran in the sama indeed you're hearing and you're seeing
and you're there will be a question about all of these allah there will be a question in front
of the king about the fuad about the heart what did you do with it so that's another name of the heart which is the
one more and i will close the lecture with this the heart is also known as
[Music]
how do you translate arthel brothers how do you translate hakal
intellect yeah any other translations mind wisdom wisdom okay
so could we say for example it's the center of reasoning center of reasoning that we always
thought was here look at how the shariah places a huge and noticeable emphasis that
we point to as being here is in fact here whilst islam not diminishing at all the role of the brain this is a no-brainer
because we see people who have accidents where they're knocked hard enough on their heads lo and behold there are signs of insanity dementia and the rest of it it's obvious
but what islam does do is shift a lot of the attention to this place here
something that much of conventional cardiology and medicine perhaps is yet to catch up with and who knows maybe the coming years
we will see more and more of it and i will give you a glimpse of some scientific research that is being uncovered in recent times but before i
share with you how the quran and sunnah
do they not ponder over the quran or are their locks upon their hearts so according to the book of allah what is it that ponders
what is it that ponders it's the heart allah who said
their hearts were sealed therefore they cannot hear therefore the primary faculty of hearing the correct message is what hit this
it's this according to the quran allah said in the ayah you heard in ali
there is a reminder in this for he who possesses what a heart allah said and in another explicit ayah allah said
do they not travel in the lands so they may develop hearts that they can
understand with us that they may hear with listen
indeed it doesn't blind the eyes it blinds the hearts that are in the
chests leaving no room for doubt what is being referred to here it blinds the hearts that is in
the chest hajib the quran huge emphasis on this
has beautified islam in your hearts and then the hadith what did they beloved
he said piety is here piety is here pointing to his heart three times what do you and i do when we want to say that we've got things going on in
our mind we say right prophet saws it's the heart
and the messenger sallallahu
allah said that i have prepared for my righteous servants in jannah paradise that which no i have seen no ear has heard and no
heart could ever imagine so what is the center of imagination according to the sunnah the heart
so it's fascinating it's fascinating and like i said the fact that conventional medicine is yet to arrive
at much of what we are explaining shouldn't stump us or cause us to doubt in fact there are so many questions that modern day medics with all due respect
brothers that they cannot answer until this day and understandably so what is the reality of an ira an
intention what is the reality of love and hatred what is that how is that formed in the human being
where does it sit no one knows what is despair what is submission and acceptance what
is reliance what is fear what is jealousy what is contentment what is happiness can a medic explain to you what these
things are of course not so the easiest person to stump their brothers is the medic
not because of their ignorance no actually it's the opposite it's because of how little we actually know of the human body we're still learning
but i share with you this and this is the last part of our lecture and we'll finish in five minutes modern day research is really catching up with the quran as it always
does and it's beginning to suggest in recent years that there is a huge emphasis on the human heart as having brain-like
qualities having what brain-like qualities there was a study in 1974 by two french
researchers two french scientists gahre and vernigi i think their names were and they were essentially stimulating
the vagus nerve in cats the vagus nerve is the nerve that connects the heart to the brains and they communicate and they discovered that it wasn't as simple as
the brain communicating messages to the heart it was actually a two-way communication the brain is sending messages to the
heart but the heart has its fair share of things to say to the brain as well and this shocked them and they and they found that sometimes
the brain would give instruction to the heart and the heart wouldn't obey so it's making them believe that the
heart is acting to some extent as an independent brain with its own decision making they've discovered that the the the
heart in recent times they've actually reclassified the heart as an indoctrine gland you guys know this better than me when they saw it producing a new hormone
they call it the anf and this hormone actively affects your kidneys your blood vessels and parts of the brain
the heart is producing hormones that affect the brain and influence the brain
there is two-way communication and the heart is able to learn apparently it's able to understand it's
able to communicate these messages to other cells it's amazing handle lights phenomenon
so the heart brain this is what they are calling it the heart brain and to show you this type of independence to some extent that it has
look at in recent times when the heart is taken out of the chest of a person and it's still beating when it's completely severed all of
those nerves between the brains the central nervous system is severed yet the heart can continue beating by itself for some time am i
mistaken doctor right what does that tell you it tells you that it's not entirely dependent upon the
brain in fact it's self-initiated in fact we know in modern day medicine that what the heart begins to beat within the
chest of a fetus well before the brain is even formed so the instruction to beat was not
initiated by the brain the central nervous system is not existent it is self-initiated how come
the heart has a level of independent reasoning it has to be taken care of their brothers and sisters this is serious stuff
and there was actually there's documented cases of people who were beheaded so the connection between the brain and heart
is gone and the body the beheaded body actually stood up and it walked around for a while and then it fell back down how how did that
happen how could that happen i read in an article in 2008 in the mail online
of an amazing case of a of an american who took the heart
from a donor and then a few years down he became very depressed he committed suicide
they discovered that 12 years prior the one who gave him the heart right the donor had also committed suicide from depression
same heart here's what is more amazing when they investigated it they found that the person who received the heart of the depressed one
who did he marry he married the former wife of the donor she was the one
it's insane yeah i hope this reassures my wife upstairs but listen if any of you end up taking
my heart move to another city please in the same article
a lady she mentions about her experience in receiving a heart from a young boy who was 18 years old
young man 18 years old who died in a motorcycle accident so she needed a new heart actually she needed a new set of lungs she took both from him
and then she speaks about her waking up from the operation the press were there to interview her
they said to her how do you feel she said i'll be honest with you i'm dying for a beer right now i could really do with a beer she said then i stopped in my tracks i said where
did that come from i don't even like beer but she said i just needed the taste of beer for some strange reason i was disappointed with myself
she said then i started getting these cravings for three things snickers green peppers can't take your fried chicken
i don't like these things she said and then she said i became a lot more masculine in my behavior i felt it
my femininity was dying out i was walking like a man i was lumbering like this stocky football player as if i've got muscles with my chest puffed
out i didn't know what was happening i was becoming more self-conscious more reliant upon myself more more daring like the guy almost who died from a
motorcycle accident and then this is the weirdest thing she said i started having these real weird
romantic dreams that i was in infatuated with a tim l
a tim she said his surname began with l i i don't remember what the surname was
she said i loved him so much in my dream it was like i was inhaling him into my soul it's like he was part of me
anyway she said i i began to there was something fishy about this i wasn't myself so i decided to inquire about the person
who donated the heart to me the hospital wouldn't given give me the name because of their strict code of confidentiality
she said i never gave up so she went with a friend to a liberty jury they found the name of the person the donor what was his name
timothy lamarrent timothy that's the tim lamarren that's the l she knew his name just by virtue
of the heart tim l she was in love with him because he's now inside of her she said i managed to track down
his address me and my friend we went and we spoke to the family and they were very emotional to see part of their son
inside somebody else we spoke i said what was his favorite drinks they said he loved beer
what about his foods they said well he loves chicken nuggets that's the kfc they said he was really into his
chocolate especially snickers and whenever he'd have salad he'd have to have a lot of green peppers inside as well subhanallah
so what is this hot brothers and sisters what is this heart just a mushy limb that just cries over love or is there a
little bit more to that yeah there was a book by claire silvia called change of heart
actually like the name of our series and she speaks of a woman who received the heart of a dona
and within a few weeks she knew the name of the donor her address and a lot of the information about the family
although all of this information was withheld from her and she speaks of another woman who took the heart of a woman that was murdered
and threw throughout her dreams and moments of quiet solitude she was able to rethink
the entire crime scene how the lady was killed she managed to reconstruct the entire details
until she gave the details to the police officer and they found him and convicted him so
the center of reasoning and the center of consciousness is the human heart according to the religion and therefore dear brothers and sisters
the topic at hand is profound we ask allah subhanahu wa tala to enable us to give us the attention to give it the attention it
deserves next week will be a second introductory lecture but
m